[MUSIC]
Hello again, I am super excited for
this video cuz we are setting up our
Cinemachine Follow Camera so
that we can move our character around.
We have a dead zone, we have a look ahead,
and we have a dampening so
that the whole game feels really
professional and polished.
So let's just im and
create our follow cam.
For the sake of completeness,
I wanna show you how we would go about
creating a follow camera if we would,
using cinamachine,
I guess we'll call it the old way.
I'll just very quickly show you this,
we're not gonna do it, but
I just wanna show you so
you know how it works.
We would have our player,
sorry our main camera, and
on our main camera we would add a script.
That script we would call something like,
FollowCam, and then we would start by
finding ObjectOfTypePlayer, so that we
know that we're looking for the player.
So, that is what we're gonna
tell the camera to look at, and
then each frame we would create
a new Vector2, which is the player's
transform position on x and
the player's transform position on y.
So basically we're saying our new Vector2
is, where is the player on x and y?
And then we would say the position
of the camera is a new Vector3,
cuz cameras are in, let me switch to 3D
here, our camera is actually in 3D space.
So we are saying our camera
has Vector3 of the new,
that we just established at the top,
the new x position,
the new y position and
then our current z position.
So, that's the way we have
been doing follow cams for
sometime, not too bad,
it works, it's okay but
it doesn't have anyway near the power or
the awesomeness of the Cinemachine.
And as we're gonna see in our Cinemachine
implementation It is super simple simple
to do and we don't even need
to get into our script and
do any coding to get some
really cool functionality.
So first of all we're going to go and
grab Cinemachine, I'm gonna download and
import from the Asset Store.
In future versions of Unity we
will be importing Cinemachine from
within standard assets or
from within the package management system.
But for now in 2017.3 I'm going to
have to go to the Asset Store and
click Import, and
import all the aspects of Cinemachine.
That'll drop it into our
assets folder down here,
which means we have the full
Cinemachine down here ready to rumble.
I'd like to tidy things up by keeping
all of these standard asset, type
things in my standard asset folder, so
I'm just going to drag it down in there.
Jump back over into the scene view when it
finishes doing what it needs to do with
its importing and scripts, cool,
back in our scene, okay now, we are ready.
The main thing to know about
Cinemachine is that it
isn't creating new cameras it's
creating new virtual camera.
So we still keep our main cameras, so
I had showed you this moments ago,
this is still our camera.
And on our camera we put what is called
a Cinemachine brain, and in that brain,
will drive any virtual cameras we create.
So a Cinemachine is a way for us to
create, another virtual camera here and
another virtual camera there and
virtual camera there or
even virtual camera in the same spot.
And then quickly switch between them and
give them different setups and
different parameters, so
that we can create different shots.
If it’s a 3D world then we can use it for
a cut scene where we show a totally
different scene that's going
on in a different spot.
In our 2D game here we're just gonna use
it to give some different tuning and
different flavor to what
we see within our world.
So let's start at the start,
click on your Main Camera> Add Component,
and search for brain.
This is the Cenemachine brain that I
was talking about just a moment ago,
now that's all we need to do for
our main camera.
The main camera we can just
leave that as main camera,
it's still the camera that we see our game
through, and it's set up ready to go,
the Cinemachine we don't need to go and
park around with that.
It will be set up based upon
what we do without other rules,
without other cameras, so
it's good thre for the moment.
I wanna create a new empty Just
to organize my cameras, so
I'll call this cameras,
we'll reset the transform, cuz we may add
some other virtual cameras that we can
drive around as part of this process.
I'll drag main camera down under cameras,
and there we have it.
I just wanna show you while we're there
that the Unity documentation is a little
bit hard to find on Cinemachine,
I've given you the resources.
This is an excellent source, it's tons and
tons of stuff about Cinemachine.
If there's anything we talk about that
you wanna cover in a bit more detail,
jump into here and have a look.
In particular, if you're going back and
retrofitting Cinemachine into our 3D
games, which I totally recommend.
And from our couple of videos, you'll
have the knowledge on how to do that.
Go back and put it into Project Boost and
see if you can work some magic back there
in our previous sections of the course.
Okay, so now that we've got our
main camera, let's get in and
do it in this game, come on, Rick,
let's get it, let's make it happen.
Okay, so our main camera, let's create
our first Cinemachine> 2Do Camera,
so this is a virtual camera,
we've got a bunch in here.
Some of them are 3D cameras which we're
just we're talking about all the graphics
and perspective if you create a 3D camera,
then you'll see a field of view option.
If you create a 2D camera then
you will see a down here the all
the graphics size options.
So that's mostly the difference
between the two but this is size,
the other has field of view.
I'm just going to parent that underneath
cameras I'll show that under the cameras.
Okay, so we've got our first virtual
camera, and what we wanna look for
in here is what does this camera point at?
So pretty easy, we've got follow in here,
we've got none at the moment.
Click the Selector and I'm going to
tell it to look at the player all right,
we could just drag the player in there,
that's all we need to do.
We don't need to do a look at because
we're not gonna be rotating the camera for
now, this is good to go
with our camera here.
The other thing, and you can see straight
away if you've got your game window,
I've got the scene in game side by side,
so let's have a look at that there.
You can see straight away
we've got all of these guides
that are happening on our camera.
If you click this check box here,
if you don't have that,
then you can turn the guides on and off,
and that will show you what's going on.
So at the moment our camera,
you can see is this blue area in here, and
the red area is the part
that we wouldn't see.
If we change the size of our camera,
you can see that'll change where we see,
in terms of how much of the world see.
I think the autographic size is seven,
is pretty good for what we're doing here.
And now just run that simple
step of adding the player to
the flow if we hit Play.
When we move our character around in our
game we'll just make our game a little bit
bigger here, we move our character around.
The camera is following the character,
so simple to do that as a follow camera.
Now you've probably already started to
think there is something interesting
going here with these different colors and
different framing.
Let's have a look at that and dig into it,
so these guides in here are showing us
mostly it's showing us the dead spot here,
the dead space.
Dead Space, that's a video game isn't it?
Dead zone, there we go, so
let's have a look at the dead zone.
First of all we've got the dead
zone width down here under body,
you can see make sure
you're framing transposer.
If you're not framing transposer,
you're just on transposer,
you might not see all that stuff.
So we need to make sure
we're framing transposer so
we can see what's going on here.
The yellow dot is where the camera is
looking at the moment that's the middle
reference point of the camera.
And the space around here is the dead
zone, if we increase the dead zone width,
we can run within the dead zone and
the camera doesn't move at all.
It's only when we get to the edge of
the dead zone, we have a bit of a follow.
Now why do we wanna do that?
Well, if we have zero dead zone in here,
if we put all the way down zero on,
then the moment we move, well and
if we have to turn down damping as well,
I'll get to damping in a moment.
our camera is locked
directly on the player, and
that's okay if that's the sort
of game we're making.
But, it feels very jarring,
particularly when you jump, if I turn down
the dampening which says how fast
the camera is gonna follow me up and down.
When I jump it more literally jumps,
it can be very jarring when
everything's moving directly like that.
So, we have a little bit of dampening
to smooth the flow when the camera,
how quickly the camera
follows this when we move.
If we increase the dampening way up, then
you can see it takes a while to catch us.
And then if we increase
the dead zone width,
that's showing us when the camera says
okay now I've gotta go catch this guy.
So as soon as we get out of the dead zone,
now it says I'll catch up, so
dampening is way too slow.
I think around about one is pretty good,
the dead zone I think is reasonably good
as well, you can play around with this.
It's gotta be the challenge for
this video is to play around with your
settings to get it the way you feel.
But that in essence is the fundamentals
of having a follow camera and
getting that amount of play and
dampening and dead zone that you like.
The other thing we'll look at
briefly is the look ahead time, so
if you turn the look ahead time way up.
Then you can see the camera tries to
look very quickly when I move left and
right so the yellow is where
it's trying to look to.
It's following the middle of the camera
controls as opposed to literally
the character.
So, if I turn this all the way
down then the yellow dot and
the character are the same,
and the character is determining exactly
what's going on with the camera.
But if you turn out very high then there's
a lot more of the camera involved and
the character tries to catch
up to where the camera is.
And then you can put some
smoothing on that, so
it's a bit of a smoother transition as
well, in terms of how that happens.
Now it's more apparent than when we jump,
see when we jump the camera's is going way
up and then way down based upon
what it thinks is happening.
So, for our game I don't think we
need a lot of look ahead time or
look ahead smoothing.
I think it can be pretty close where
the character is actually pretty tight
controls is what we're going for
in our particular game here.
And the settings down below
those relates more to 3D so
I'm not gonna dive in
to that at the moment.
Just while we're here we were aiming at
a particular object than we have a whole
bunch of aim controls, we're not doing
that we're just moving the camera.
We're not moving how the camera
changes it's rotation to the point of
the characters, that's why we're not
gonna do any changes to the aims.
But if you've got a 3D game where you're
setting up your Cinemachine cameras
then aim is certainly
something to play around with.
Some of the other things we will
get to in the very next video, so
to wrap up this lecture, I'd like for
you to set up your follow camera,
tune your camera to give
the feel you want in your game.
Pay attention to the overall camera size,
so
I was showing you here
the autographic size.
It's just gonna show you how little
our character is on the screen or
how big our character is on the screen,
so if you wanna go for
something really quite extreme like that,
and I'm all for extreme tuning.
That's how you find weird, cool games that
you didn't even know could have existed,
what sort of strange game play
can sort of come up with.
If you have this massively zoomed in kinda
game, that could be a little bit of fun,
or it could be frustrating but
you never know until you try.
So the overall camera size, the dead zone
that we played around with the look ahead,
I'd recommend keeping
a pretty much where to use.
But you might find a cool different
tuning that really works for
your particular game and
style you're going for.
So jumping, tune your follow camera,
get a feel for it,
get comfortable with Cinemachine and we'll
do more Cinemachine in the next video.